Harry Potter was snoring loudly. He had been sitting in a
chair beside his bedroom window for the best part of
four hours, staring out at the darkening street, and had finally
fallen asleep with one side of his face pressed against the cold windowpane, his glasses askew and his mouth wide open. The misty
fug his breath had left on the window sparkled in the orange glare
of the streetlamp outside, and the artificial light drained his face of
all color, so that he looked ghostly beneath his shock of untidy
black hair.
The room was strewn with various possessions and a good
smattering of rubbish. Owl feathers, apple cores, and sweet
wrappers littered the floor, a number of spellbooks lay higgledypiggledy among the tangled robes on his bed, and a mess of
newspapers sat in a puddle of light on his desk. The headline
of one blared: 
HARRY POTTER: THE CHOSEN ONE?
Rumors continue to fly about the mysterious recent disturbance at the Ministry of Magic, during
which He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named was sighted
once more.
“We’re not allowed to talk about it, don’t ask me
anything,” said one agitated Obliviator, who refused to give his name as he left the Ministry last
night.
Nevertheless, highly placed sources within the
Ministry have confirmed that the disturbance centered on the fabled Hall of Prophecy.
Though Ministry spokeswizards have hitherto
refused even to confirm the existence of such a
place, a growing number of the Wizarding community believe that the Death Eaters now serving sentences in Azkaban for trespass and attempted theft
were attempting to steal a prophecy. The nature of
that prophecy is unknown, although speculation is
rife that it concerns Harry Potter, the only person
ever known to have survived the Killing Curse, and
who is also known to have been at the Ministry on
the night in question. Some are going so far as to
call Potter “the Chosen One,” believing that the
prophecy names him as the only one who will be
able to rid us of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.
The current whereabouts of the prophecy, if it
exists, are unknown, although (ctd. page 2, column 5) 
A second newspaper lay beside the first. This one bore the
headline:
SCRIMGEOUR SUCCEEDS FUDGE
Most of this front page was taken up with a large black-andwhite picture of a man with a lionlike mane of thick hair and a
rather ravaged face. The picture was moving — the man was waving at the ceiling.
Rufus Scrimgeour, previously Head of the Auror
office in the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, has succeeded Cornelius Fudge as Minister of
Magic. The appointment has largely been greeted
with enthusiasm by the Wizarding community,
though rumors of a rift between the new Minister
and Albus Dumbledore, newly reinstated Chief
Warlock of the Wizengamot, surfaced within hours
of Scrimgeour taking office.
Scrimgeour’s representatives admitted that he
had met with Dumbledore at once upon taking
possession of the top job, but refused to comment on the topics under discussion. Albus Dumbledore is known to (ctd. page 3, column 2)
To the left of this paper sat another, which had been folded so
that a story bearing the title ministry guarantees students’
safety was visible. 
Newly appointed Minister of Magic, Rufus Scrimgeour, spoke today of the tough new measures
taken by his Ministry to ensure the safety of students returning to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft
and Wizardry this autumn.
“For obvious reasons, the Ministry will not be
going into detail about its stringent new security
plans,” said the Minister, although an insider confirmed that measures include defensive spells and
charms, a complex array of countercurses, and a
small task force of Aurors dedicated solely to the
protection of Hogwarts School.
Most seem reassured by the new Minister’s
tough stand on student safety. Said Mrs. Augusta
Longbottom, “My grandson, Neville — a good
friend of Harry Potter’s, incidentally, who fought
the Death Eaters alongside him at the Ministry in
June and —
But the rest of this story was obscured by the large birdcage
standing on top of it. Inside it was a magnificent snowy owl. Her
amber eyes surveyed the room imperiously, her head swiveling
occasionally to gaze at her snoring master. Once or twice she
clicked her beak impatiently, but Harry was too deeply asleep to
hear her.
A large trunk stood in the very middle of the room. Its lid was
open; it looked expectant; yet it was almost empty but for a residue
of old underwear, sweets, empty ink bottles, and broken quills that 
coated the very bottom. Nearby, on the floor, lay a purple leaflet
emblazoned with the words:
— issued on behalf of —
The Ministry of Magic
PROTECTING YOUR HOME AND FAMILY
AGAINST DARK FORCES
The Wizarding community is currently under threat from an organization calling itself the Death Eaters. Observing the following
simple security guidelines will help protect you, your family, and
your home from attack.
1. You are advised not to leave the house alone.
2. Particular care should be taken during the hours of darkness. Wherever possible, arrange to complete journeys before night has fallen.
3. Review the security arrangements around your house,
making sure that all family members are aware of emergency measures such as Shield and Disillusionment
Charms, and, in the case of underage family members,
Side-Along-Apparition.
4. Agree on security questions with close friends and family
so as to detect Death Eaters masquerading as others by use
of the Polyjuice Potion (see page 2).
5. Should you feel that a family member, colleague, friend, or
neighbor is acting in a strange manner, contact the Magical Law Enforcement Squad at once. They may have been
put under the Imperius Curse (see page 4). 
6. Should the Dark Mark appear over any dwelling place or
other building, DO NOT ENTER, but contact the Auror
office immediately.
7. Unconfirmed sightings suggest that the Death Eaters may
now be using Inferi (see page 10). Any sighting of an Inferius, or encounter with same, should be reported to the
Ministry IMMEDIATELY.
Harry grunted in his sleep and his face slid down the window an
inch or so, making his glasses still more lopsided, but he did not
wake up. An alarm clock, repaired by Harry several years ago,
ticked loudly on the sill, showing one minute to eleven. Beside it,
held in place by Harry’s relaxed hand, was a piece of parchment
covered in thin, slanting writing. Harry had read this letter so often
since its arrival three days ago that although it had been delivered
in a tightly furled scroll, it now lay quite flat. 
Dear Harry,
If it is convenient to you, I shall call at number four, Privet
Drive this coming Friday at eleven P.M. to escort you to the
Burrow, where you have been invited to spend the remainder
of your school holidays.
If you are agreeable, I should also be glad of your assistance
in a matter to which I hope to attend on the way to the
Burrow. I shall explain this more fully when I see you.
Kindly send your answer by return of this owl. Hoping to
see you this Friday,
I am, yours most sincerely,
Albus Dumbledore 
Though he already knew it by heart, Harry had been stealing
glances at this missive every few minutes since seven o’clock that
evening, when he had first taken up his position beside his bedroom window, which had a reasonable view of both ends of Privet
Drive. He knew it was pointless to keep rereading Dumbledore’s
words; Harry had sent back his “yes” with the delivering owl, as requested, and all he could do now was wait: Either Dumbledore was
going to come, or he was not.
But Harry had not packed. It just seemed too good to be true
that he was going to be rescued from the Dursleys after a mere fortnight of their company. He could not shrug off the feeling that
something was going to go wrong — his reply to Dumbledore’s letter might have gone astray; Dumbledore could be prevented from
collecting him; the letter might turn out not to be from Dumbledore at all, but a trick or joke or trap. Harry had not been able to
face packing and then being let down and having to unpack again.
The only gesture he had made to the possibility of a journey was to
shut his snowy owl, Hedwig, safely in her cage.
The minute hand on the alarm clock reached the number twelve
and, at that precise moment, the streetlamp outside the window
went out.
Harry awoke as though the sudden darkness were an alarm.
Hastily straightening his glasses and unsticking his cheek from the
glass, he pressed his nose against the window instead and squinted
down at the pavement. A tall figure in a long, billowing cloak was
walking up the garden path.